_curators/jill-ahlberg-yohe.md, before:

---
name: Jill Ahlberg Yohe
slug: jill-ahlberg-yohe
photo: http://new.artsmia.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/jill_yohe.jpg
department: Art of Africa and the Americas
title: |
  Assistant Curator of Native American Art
---

## Current Projects
- Co-curating with Teri Greeves (Kiowa/Comanche) the upcoming “Native Women Artists: Ancient to Contemporary,”   opening in fall 2018 in partnership with more than 20 native women artists, scholars of Native American art, and a local Native Community Engagement Board.
- Curated “Arriving at Fresh Water: Contemporary Native Artists from Our Great Lakes,” May 2015 – March 2016.
- Curated Permanent Gallery Rotation, fall 2015
- Continuing archival and ethnographic research on Native American art and place, the social aspects of Art in Native communities, and collaborative and critical museology  

## Education
- PhD and MA, University of New Mexico, with distinction
- BA, University of Maryland

## Specialty
Native North American art, with a special interest and experience in Navajo textiles, culture, and art; Contemporary Native American art; Community Outreach; Native American art and place; Native American art and museology;  

## Publications
- <em>The Donald Danforth Jr. Collection: Art of the Great Plains</em> Saint Louis Art Museum, 2016. Editor and contributor of catalogue. Contributors include prominent Native and non-Native Art scholars, Native community members, artists.
- ”Children of the Middle Waters”, Osage Art at the Founding of St. Louis Exhibition. Sheldon Galleries, St. Louis, MO. With Caitlin Donald (Osage/Ponca)
- “The Circulation and Silence of Weaving Knowledge in Contemporary Navajo Life.” <em>American Indian Culture and Research Journal</em>, spring 2013.
- “Situated Flow: A Few Thoughts on Reweaving Meaning in the Navajo Spirit Pathway.” Invited Contribution. <em>Museum Anthropology Review</em>, 6:1, 2012.
- Book Review of <em>Patterns of Exchange: Navajo Weavers and Traders</em>, by Teresa Wilkins, <em>KIVA: The Journal of Southwestern Anthropology and History</em>. 75:3, 2010.
- "What Weavings Bring: The Social Value of Weaving Objects in Contemporary Navajo Life". Published for the Julian D. Hayden Student Paper Competition Award. <em>KIVA: The Journal of Southwestern Anthropology and History</em>. Vol 73:4<em>The Social Life of Weaving in Contemporary Navajo Life</em>. University of New Mexico Ph.D. Dissertation, 2008.
- "The Social Role of Weaving in Contemporary Navajo Life". Invited Contribution to <em>Glyphs</em>, the Newsletter of the Arizona Archaeological and Historical Society, Tucson, Arizona, 2006.

## Contact
* (612) 870-3175
* [jahlbergyohe@artsmia.org](mailto:jahlbergyohe@artsmia.org)

Commit message:

curator profile updates and link fixes

_curators/jill-ahlberg-yohe.md, after:

---
name: Jill Ahlberg Yohe
slug: jill-ahlberg-yohe
photo: http://new.artsmia.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/jill_yohe.jpg
department: Art of Africa and the Americas
title: |
  Assistant Curator of Native American Art
---

Jill oversees the museum’s collection of Native American art. She arrived at Mia in 2014, having previously served as assistant curator and Mellon Fellow of Native American Art at the St. Louis Art Museum. There, she installed the museum’s first three permanent galleries of Native American art and collaborated with Lakota artist Arthur Amiotte and Crow artist Wendy Red Star to bring a native understanding to works from their respective communities. She grew up in rural Pennsylvania, received her BA from the University of Maryland, and studied anthropology for her MA at the University of New Mexico. For her PhD (2008), also from the University of New Mexico, she focused on Navajo textiles, learning the Navajo language and living on the vast Navajo reservation for 4.5 years. Among her initiatives at Mia is showcasing native Minnesota artists, highlighting the art of native women, and bringing native perspectives to bear on the museum’s collection.

Q: You’re a farm girl from the Pennsylvania countryside. How did you become interested in Navajo weaving?

JILL AHLBERG YOHE: I’ll never forget the director of the Maxwell Museum of Anthropology, at the University of New Mexico, taking me into the basement storage and cranking open the vault of Navajo textiles. There were hundreds of wrapped Navajo textiles, just incredible. And I realized that in order to know that art, I needed to know the people. There’s just no way to understand the mastery and brilliance without understanding the culture.

Q: You spent years on the Navajo reservation, researching weaving. What was that like?

Jill: I always joke that it took about six months for anyone to talk to me, but it’s true. I took classes in the Navajo language and I worked at a senior center delivering food to elders. But I had to present the goal of my fieldwork—in Navajo—at a Chapter House meeting in front of about 150 Navajo people, and then I could go forth. It was the scariest thing I’ve ever done in my life. I eventually became great friends with people who knew other people and we’d go into the hinterlands to visit with weavers and understand how weaving is used in a variety of ways in Navajo life.

Q: How do you think about the dichotomy often made with Native American objects between culture and art, aesthetics and use?

Jill: One of the ways I avoid that pitfall is to understand the work from the viewpoint of the culture from which it’s made. What distinctions do Lakota people make regarding design, technique, and artistry—what criteria does the community itself use to distinguish the best pieces? It’s the same with Navajo textiles: There’s an implicit understanding among Navajo artists and scholars of what constitutes a masterwork, and they can guide you—this one is better for these reasons.

Q: What trends are you seeing in contemporary native art?

Jill: I firmly believe that contemporary Native American art is going to go mainstream in the next decade. Some of the most important, innovative contemporary art right now is coming from native artists. There’s more freedom, more attention, and more possibilities for native artists. Right now, the Upper Midwest—and Minnesota in particular—is the most important place for native artists in the country, in terms of the sheer amount of great art being produced. From established artists to the up-and-coming, it’s just extraordinary.

## Current Projects
- Co-curating with Teri Greeves (Kiowa/Comanche) the upcoming “Native Women Artists: Ancient to Contemporary,”   opening in fall 2018 in partnership with more than 20 native women artists, scholars of Native American art, and a local Native Community Engagement Board.
- Curated “Arriving at Fresh Water: Contemporary Native Artists from Our Great Lakes,” May 2015 – March 2016.
- Curated Permanent Gallery Rotation, fall 2015
- Continuing archival and ethnographic research on Native American art and place, the social aspects of Art in Native communities, and collaborative and critical museology  

## Education
- PhD and MA, University of New Mexico, with distinction
- BA, University of Maryland

## Specialty
Native North American art, with a special interest and experience in Navajo textiles, culture, and art; Contemporary Native American art; Community Outreach; Native American art and place; Native American art and museology;  

## Publications
- <em>The Donald Danforth Jr. Collection: Art of the Great Plains</em> Saint Louis Art Museum, 2016. Editor and contributor of catalogue. Contributors include prominent Native and non-Native Art scholars, Native community members, artists.
- ”Children of the Middle Waters”, Osage Art at the Founding of St. Louis Exhibition. Sheldon Galleries, St. Louis, MO. With Caitlin Donald (Osage/Ponca)
- “The Circulation and Silence of Weaving Knowledge in Contemporary Navajo Life.” <em>American Indian Culture and Research Journal</em>, spring 2013.
- “Situated Flow: A Few Thoughts on Reweaving Meaning in the Navajo Spirit Pathway.” Invited Contribution. <em>Museum Anthropology Review</em>, 6:1, 2012.
- Book Review of <em>Patterns of Exchange: Navajo Weavers and Traders</em>, by Teresa Wilkins, <em>KIVA: The Journal of Southwestern Anthropology and History</em>. 75:3, 2010.
- "What Weavings Bring: The Social Value of Weaving Objects in Contemporary Navajo Life". Published for the Julian D. Hayden Student Paper Competition Award. <em>KIVA: The Journal of Southwestern Anthropology and History</em>. Vol 73:4<em>The Social Life of Weaving in Contemporary Navajo Life</em>. University of New Mexico Ph.D. Dissertation, 2008.
- "The Social Role of Weaving in Contemporary Navajo Life". Invited Contribution to <em>Glyphs</em>, the Newsletter of the Arizona Archaeological and Historical Society, Tucson, Arizona, 2006.

## Contact
* (612) 870-3175
* [jahlbergyohe@artsmia.org](mailto:jahlbergyohe@artsmia.org)
